So let's take a step back and just look quickly at a fundamental example here.
So this is not a unit test here.
And this represents a unity class something that I would consider production code meaning not test code.
And this would be in your perhaps a math game.
It's a very simple my math system class that does two things.
It can add and it can subtract.
So we have the add method.
Notice I'm passing in an int integer a and b.
I add those together and I return that value.
Now if this was used in your game and you wanted to be sure it was working faithfully, you would just
play your game and you would hope that a successful add operation implementation gives you on screen,
easy to judge results.
But that's not always the case.
Maybe this is adding A and B and C by accident, and you might not notice that perhaps your score system
is increasing from one to 2 to 4 doing bad math, and you just don't happen to catch it.
The nice thing about adding a unit test is you're able to test more situations than you may come across
as the game player, and do it more systematically.
Let's take a quick look at our very first unit test.
And it's going to be a unit test on top of this system here.
So this is a separate class.
And by putting the the code base here, we're seeing in a certain spot in your project.
And by marking the method as the arrow shows with test, unity will treat it a little bit differently.
This doesn't need to be called anywhere from inside your production code, but look how easy it is inside
in the body.
Here we see we're using the arrange, act and assert methodology, and we'll go deeper into that methodology
there.
It's an optional approach that just helps you organize your thoughts.
So first we create an instance of the class.
Then we call a method on that class.
And then we assert or we assume that this is going to be our expected result.
Now this test will pass if the assertion is correct and it will fail if the assertion is incorrect.
Now, it may seem silly to pass five and ten and check that it turns 15, because again, our implementation
code is so simple.
But these are the fundamental ideas that when we apply them to even larger classes, it's going to be
important.
So that's our course overview.
Let's just think about what we've learned here.
We've talked a bit about how and why unit testing is important to a project.
I've hinted a little bit about why it's quite rare in game development.
One reason is that we as game developers, we love adding new features, and this feels a little bit
more like slowing us down.
But when we looked at that 80 over 20 rule, we see, you know, we're quite surprised that actually
most of our life as game developers is spent on fixing and maintaining existing features, not in adding
new ones.
So recognizing that and seeing that unit testing will help us create those new features, as well as
give us much more code confidence in the 80% of the maintenance that we're spending in our project.
It is going to easily pay benefits to you as a game developer, and it's a wonderful skill to learn.
So let's get started.